# Core React Loop
[Original lesson with some good images](https://courses.joshwcomeau.com/joy-of-react/02-state/03.01-core-react-loop).


Imagine this Counter component:

```js
function Counter() {
  const [count, setCount] = React.useState(0);

  return (
    <button onClick={() => setCount(count + 1)}>
      Value: {count}
    </button>
  );
}
```

Now, let's write the pure JS version:

```js
function Counter() {
  const [count, setCount] = React.useState(0);

  return React.createElement(
    'button',
    { onClick: () => setCount(count + 1) },
    'Value: ',
    count
  );
}
```

When it runs, it's gonna produce a code similar to this:

```js
{
  type: 'button',
  key: null,
  ref: null,
  props: {
    onClick: () => setCount(count + 1),
  },
  children: 'Value: 0',
  _owner: null,
  _store: { validated: false }
}
```

React elements are essentially descriptions of the UI we want. We're saying we want a button with the text "Value: 0". In plain HTML:

```html
<button>
  Value: 0
</button>
```

When a state variable is updated, it triggers a **re-render**. React will call the `Counter` function, which will create the brand new HTML element, but this time with the text "Value: 1".

Each render is like taking a snapshot of the new structure, and then React **commits** this structure to the DOM. This process is called **reconciliation**, where React figures out what changes from the previous values and then execute the operation accordingly (if there are any differences between the two snapshots).

In this case, the operation would be something like `button.innerText = "Value: 1";

To summarize:

- A **re-render** is a React process where we figure out what needs to change (AKA, **"reconciliation"**, the spot-the-differences game) {jogo dos sete erros}
- If something has changed between the two snapshots, React will "commit" those changes by editing the DOM, so that it matches the latest snapshot.
- Whenever a DOM node is edited, the browser will **re-paint**, re-drawing the relevant pixels so that the user sees the correct UI.
- **Not all re-renders require re-paints!** If nothing has changed between snapshots, React won't edit any new DOM nodes, and nothing will be re-painted.

React tries to keep re-painting to a minimum, because re-painting is slow. Instead of generating a bunch of new DOM nodes from scratch (lots of painting), it figures out what changed between snapshots, and makes the required tweaks with surgical precision.

[Additional reading](https://beta.reactjs.org/learn/render-and-commit) on the React Docs.