A component will automatically re-render when its parent re-renders, regardless of wether or not its props changed. 

In large apps, this can lead to performance problems. A single state change might might re-render hundreds of components, even if only a small fraction of them *actually* need to re-render.

Fortunately, React has an escape hatch that we can use: the **`React.memo`** utility.

```js
function Decoration() {
  return (
    <div className="decoration">
      ⛵️
    </div>
  );
}

const PureDecoration = React.memo(Decoration);

export default PureDecoration;
```

`React.memo` takes a component as argument (`Decoration`) and augments it, giving it a new super-power: **it can selectively ignore re-renders that don't affect it**.

When the parent component re-renders, React will try to re-render the child `PureDecoration`, but `PureDecoration` steps in and says "None of my props have changed, so I won't be re-rendering this time."

This technique is known as ***memoization***.


**Summarizing**:

- The only way to re-render anything in React is to update a state variable by calling a state-setter function (e.g. `setCount`).
- When a component re-renders, it automatically re-renders all of its descendants, even if none of their props have changed.
- We can wrap our components with `React.memo` to optimize it, so that it only re-renders if at least 1 of its props have changed since the last render.
- If you `React.memo` a component, that means that it'll only re-render if any of its props changed or if its own state changed. If it doesn't have any props, it'll only re-render if any internal state changes occur **OR** if a context value changes.

	A pure component will re-render if a **prop, state variable,** or **context value** changes.


	**Why isn't this the default behavior**?
	The official recommendation is to use `React.memo` as-needed, when trying to fix a performance issue. 
	
	Developers tend to *overestimate* how much a re-render costs. If a component has a bunch of props and not a lot of descendants, it can be *slower* to check if any of the props have changed compared to re-rendering the component.

Further reading / watching: [React without memo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lGEMwh32soc).
