# Effect cleanup

If you add an event listener, for instance, to your effect, that event is going to keep running even after the component unmounts.

To avoid that, your effect needs to return a function, that will run after the component unmounts.

```js
React.useEffect(() => {
  function handleMouseMove(event) {
    setMousePosition({
      x: event.clientX,
      y: event.clientY,
    });
  }

  window.addEventListener('mousemove', handleMouseMove);

  return () => {
    window.removeEventListener('mousemove', handleMouseMove);
  }
}, []);
```

This is typically the pattern for any subscription / long-running process. We *subscribe* in the effect function, and *unsubscribe* in the cleanup function. React will call the cleanup function right before the component unmount, stopping the process and ensuring we don't wind up with a memory leak.

# Dealing with stale state

Consider this effect:

```js
React.useEffect(() => {
  function handleKeyDown(event) {
    if (event.code === 'Space') {
      setIsPlaying(!isPlaying);
    }
  }

  window.addEventListener('keydown', handleKeyDown);

  return () => {
    window.removeEventListener('keydown', handleKeyDown);
  };
}, []);
```

We expect that, after pressing the space bar, setIsPlaying will toggle. The problem is that we do not have access to the freshest state value, since this effect did not update to get it, as the dependency array is empty.

We could, however, add it to the dependency array, and it'll work just fine.

```js
React.useEffect(() => {
  function handleKeyDown(event) {
    if (event.code === 'Space') {
      setIsPlaying(!isPlaying);
    }
  }

  window.addEventListener('keydown', handleKeyDown);

  return () => {
    window.removeEventListener('keydown', handleKeyDown);
  };
}, [isPlaying]);
```

In this scenario, there is no problem with that, because the cost of adding these events is negligible. However, what if the subscription/unsubscription process is slow? Is there a way to get the freshest value of `isPlaying` without adding it to the dependency array?

The answer is **yes**, using the callback escape hatch. 

# The state-setter callback

```js
React.useEffect(() => {
  function handleKeyDown(event) {
    if (event.code === 'Space') {
      setIsPlaying(currentIsPlaying => {
        return !currentIsPlaying;
      });
    }
  }

  window.addEventListener('keydown', handleKeyDown);

  return () => {
    window.removeEventListener('keydown', handleKeyDown);
  };
}, []);
```

When we pass a function to a `setState`, we can get the first parameter to have the current value of the state. React will provide the current value of the state on the parameter.

It's a good practice to have the parameter name be sometime meaningful, like `currentX`, where X is the name of the state. The goal is to make clear we're not referencing the potentially-stale variable from the snapshot.

---
So, as you can see, we have another way to use the state-setter functions with React. Instead of directly passing the value, you can pass a callback, and React will invoke that function for us.

```js
// sets `count` to `100`:
setCount(() => {
  return 100;
});
```

This is useful because **React provides the current value:**

```js
setCount((currentCount) => {
  return currentCount + 1;
});
```

## When to use the callback syntax

Most of the time, we don't need to use it. It's only necessary when it's possible for state variables to grow stale.
